README.md, before:

# Akamai Cloud - AI Quickstart Qwen3-14B-FP8 LLM

Automated deployment script to run your private, self-hosted LLM inference server on Akamai Cloud GPU instances. Pre-configured with Qwen3-14B-FP8 (14B parameter model) optimized for high-quality reasoning and instruction following. Get vLLM and Open-WebUI up and running in minutes with a single command.

## About Qwen3-14B-FP8

**Qwen3-14B-FP8** is Alibaba's Qwen3 14B model quantized to FP8 precision for efficient inference on modern GPUs. Qwen3 represents a significant advancement in open-source LLMs with strong performance across reasoning, coding, and multilingual tasks.

<img src="docs/openmodel-ai-intelligence-index-2025-12-10.png" alt="Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index" width="800"/>

**Key advantages:**
- **High-quality reasoning**: Qwen3 excels at complex reasoning tasks, code generation, and instruction following
- **FP8 quantization**: Reduces memory footprint while maintaining model quality, enabling deployment on RTX 4000 Ada GPUs
- **Multilingual support**: Strong performance across multiple languages including English, Chinese, and more
- **Open weights**: Fully open model available on HuggingFace at `Qwen/Qwen3-14B-FP8`

## 📚 Looking for different models?

Check out these other quickstart repositories:

| Model | Parameters | Description | Repository |
|:------|:-----------|:------------|:-----------|
| **GPT-OSS-20B** | 20B | Large-scale open-source GPT model | [ai-quickstart-gpt-oss-20b](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-gpt-oss-20b) |
| **Qwen3-14B-FP8** | 14B | Qwen3 with FP8 quantization (this repo) | [ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8) |
| **NVIDIA Nemotron Nano 9B v2** | 9B | NVIDIA's efficient Nemotron model | [ai-quickstart-nvidia-nemotron-nano-9b-v2](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-nvidia-nemotron-nano-9b-v2) |


-----------------------------------------
## 🚀 Quick Start

Just run this single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh | bash
```

That's it! The script will download required files and guide you through the interactive deployment process.

## ✨ Features
- Fully Automated Deployment: handles instance creation with real-time progress tracking
- Basic AI Stack: vLLM for LLM inference with pre-loaded model and Open-WebUI for chat interface
- Cross-Platform Support: Works on macOS and Windows (Git Bash/WSL)

-----------------------------------------

## 🏗️ What Gets Deployed

<img src="docs/architecture.svg" alt="Architecture" align="left" width="600"/>

<br clear="left"/>

### Linode GPU Instance with
- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS with NVIDIA drivers
- Docker & NVIDIA Container Toolkit
- Systemd service for automatic startup on reboot

### Docker container
| | Service | Description | 
|:--:|:--|:--|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/media-kit/main/vLLM-Logo.png" alt="vLLM" width="32"/> | **vLLM** | High-throughput LLM inference engine with OpenAI-compatible API (port 8000) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-webui/open-webui/main/static/favicon.png" alt="Open-WebUI" width="32"/> | **Open-WebUI** | Feature-rich web interface for AI chat interactions (port 3000) |

-----------------------------------------

## 📋 Requirements

### Akamai Cloud Account
- Active Linode account with GPU access enabled

### Local System Requirements
- **Required**: bash, curl, ssh, jq
- **Note**: jq will be auto-installed if missing

-----------------------------------------
## 🚦 Getting Started

### 1. Option A: Single Command Execution

No installation required - just run:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh | bash
```

### 1. Option B: Download and Run

Download the script and run locally:

```bash
curl -fsSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh
bash deploy.sh
```

### 1. Option C: Clone Repository

If you prefer to inspect or customize the scripts:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8
cd ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8
./deploy.sh
```

> [!NOTE]
> if you like to add more services check out docker compose template file
> ```
> vi /template/docker-compose.yml
> ```
>

### 2. Follow Interactive Prompts
The script will ask you to:
- Choose a region (e.g., us-east, eu-west)
- Select GPU instance type
- Provide instance label
- Select or generate SSH keys
- Confirm deployment

### 3. Wait for Deployment
The script automatically:
- Creates GPU instance in your linode account
- Monitors cloud-init installation progress
- Waits for Open-WebUI health check
- Waits for vLLM model loading

### 4. Access Your Services
Once complete, you'll see:
```
🎉 Setup Complete!

✅ Your AI LLM instance is now running!

🌐 Access URLs:
   Open-WebUI:  http://<instance-ip>:3000

🔐 Access Credentials:
   SSH:   ssh -i /path/to/your/key root@<instance-ip>
```

### Configuration files in GPU Instance
```
   # Install script called by cloud-init service
   /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/install.sh

   # docker compose file calle by systemctl at startup
   /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/docker-compose.yml

   # service definition
   /etc/systemd/system/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service
```

-----------------------------------------

## 🗑️ Delete Instance

To delete a deployed instance:

```bash
# Remote execution
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/delete.sh | bash -s -- <instance_id>

# Or download script and run
curl -fsSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/delete.sh
bash delete.sh <instance_id>
```

The script will show instance details and ask for confirmation before deletion.

-----------------------------------------

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/
├── deploy.sh                    # Main deployment script
├── delete.sh                    # Instance deletion script
├── script/
│   └── quickstart_tools.sh      # Shared functions (API, OAuth, utilities)
└── template/
    ├── cloud-init.yaml          # Cloud-init configuration
    ├── docker-compose.yml       # Docker Compose configuration
    └── install.sh               # Post-boot installation script
```

-----------------------------------------
## 🔒 Security

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: By default, ports 3000 are exposed to the internet

### Immediate Security Steps

1. **Configure Cloud Firewall** (Recommended)
   - Create Linode Cloud Firewall
   - Restrict access to ports 3000 by source IP
   - Allow SSH (port 22) from trusted IPs only

2. **SSH Security**
   - SSH key authentication required
   - Root password provided for emergency console access only

-----------------------------------------
## 🛠️ Useful Commands

```bash
# SSH into your instance
ssh -i /path/to/your/key root@<instance-ip>

# Check container status
docker ps -a

# Check Docker containers log
cd /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8 && docker compose logs -f

# Check systemd service status
systemctl status ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service

# View systemd service logs
journalctl -u ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service -n 100

# Check cloud-init logs
tail -f /var/log/cloud-init-output.log -n 100

# Restart all services
systemctl restart ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service

# Check NVIDIA GPU status
nvidia-smi

# Check vLLM loaded models
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/models

# Check Open-WebUI health
curl http://localhost:3000/health

# Check vLLM container logs
docker logs vllm
```
-----------------------------------------

## 🤝 Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome! For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

Commit message:

feat: add Caddy reverse proxy for automatic HTTPS
- Add Caddy container with automatic TLS via .ip.linodeusercontent.com domain
- Update deploy.sh with Caddyfile support and HTTPS URL output
- Update cloud-init.yaml and install.sh for Caddy domain configuration
- Update README.md and architecture.svg documentation
- Change Open-WebUI to internal port 8080 behind Caddy proxy

README.md, after:

# Akamai Cloud - AI Quickstart Qwen3-14B-FP8 LLM

Automated deployment script to run your private, self-hosted LLM inference server on Akamai Cloud GPU instances. Pre-configured with Qwen3-14B-FP8 (14B parameter model) optimized for high-quality reasoning and instruction following. Get vLLM and Open-WebUI up and running in minutes with a single command.

## About Qwen3-14B-FP8

**Qwen3-14B-FP8** is Alibaba's Qwen3 14B model quantized to FP8 precision for efficient inference on modern GPUs. Qwen3 represents a significant advancement in open-source LLMs with strong performance across reasoning, coding, and multilingual tasks.

<img src="docs/openmodel-ai-intelligence-index-2025-12-10.png" alt="Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index" width="800"/>

**Key advantages:**
- **High-quality reasoning**: Qwen3 excels at complex reasoning tasks, code generation, and instruction following
- **FP8 quantization**: Reduces memory footprint while maintaining model quality, enabling deployment on RTX 4000 Ada GPUs
- **Multilingual support**: Strong performance across multiple languages including English, Chinese, and more
- **Open weights**: Fully open model available on HuggingFace at `Qwen/Qwen3-14B-FP8`

## 📚 Looking for different models?

Check out these other quickstart repositories:

| Model | Parameters | Description | Repository |
|:------|:-----------|:------------|:-----------|
| **GPT-OSS-20B** | 20B | Large-scale open-source GPT model | [ai-quickstart-gpt-oss-20b](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-gpt-oss-20b) |
| **Qwen3-14B-FP8** | 14B | Qwen3 with FP8 quantization (this repo) | [ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8) |
| **NVIDIA Nemotron Nano 9B v2** | 9B | NVIDIA's efficient Nemotron model | [ai-quickstart-nvidia-nemotron-nano-9b-v2](https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-nvidia-nemotron-nano-9b-v2) |


-----------------------------------------
## 🚀 Quick Start

Just run this single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh | bash
```

That's it! The script will download required files and guide you through the interactive deployment process.

## ✨ Features
- Fully Automated Deployment: handles instance creation with real-time progress tracking
- Basic AI Stack: vLLM for LLM inference with pre-loaded model and Open-WebUI for chat interface
- Cross-Platform Support: Works on macOS and Windows (Git Bash/WSL)

-----------------------------------------

## 🏗️ What Gets Deployed

<img src="docs/architecture.svg" alt="Architecture" align="left" width="600"/>

<br clear="left"/>

### Linode GPU Instance with
- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS with NVIDIA drivers
- Docker & NVIDIA Container Toolkit
- Systemd service for automatic startup on reboot

### Docker container
| | Service | Description |
|:--:|:--|:--|
| <img src="https://caddyserver.com/resources/images/favicon.png" alt="Caddy" width="32"/> | **Caddy** | Reverse proxy with automatic HTTPS (port 80/443) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/media-kit/main/vLLM-Logo.png" alt="vLLM" width="32"/> | **vLLM** | High-throughput LLM inference engine with OpenAI-compatible API (port 8000) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-webui/open-webui/main/static/favicon.png" alt="Open-WebUI" width="32"/> | **Open-WebUI** | Feature-rich web interface for AI chat interactions (port 8080) |

-----------------------------------------

## 📋 Requirements

### Akamai Cloud Account
- Active Linode account with GPU access enabled

### Local System Requirements
- **Required**: bash, curl, ssh, jq
- **Note**: jq will be auto-installed if missing

-----------------------------------------
## 🚦 Getting Started

### 1. Option A: Single Command Execution

No installation required - just run:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh | bash
```

### 1. Option B: Download and Run

Download the script and run locally:

```bash
curl -fsSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/deploy.sh
bash deploy.sh
```

### 1. Option C: Clone Repository

If you prefer to inspect or customize the scripts:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8
cd ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8
./deploy.sh
```

> [!NOTE]
> if you like to add more services check out docker compose template file
> ```
> vi /template/docker-compose.yml
> ```
>

### 2. Follow Interactive Prompts
The script will ask you to:
- Choose a region (e.g., us-east, eu-west)
- Select GPU instance type
- Provide instance label
- Select or generate SSH keys
- Confirm deployment

### 3. Wait for Deployment
The script automatically:
- Creates GPU instance in your linode account
- Monitors cloud-init installation progress
- Waits for Open-WebUI health check
- Waits for vLLM model loading

### 4. Access Your Services
Once complete, you'll see:
```
🎉 Setup Complete!

✅ Your AI LLM instance is now running!

🌐 Access URLs:
   Open-WebUI:  https://<ip-label>.ip.linodeusercontent.com

🔐 Access Credentials:
   SSH:   ssh -i /path/to/your/key root@<instance-ip>
```

### Configuration files in GPU Instance
```
   # Install script called by cloud-init service
   /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/install.sh

   # docker compose file called by systemctl at startup
   /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/docker-compose.yml

   # Caddy reverse proxy configuration
   /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/Caddyfile

   # service definition
   /etc/systemd/system/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service
```

-----------------------------------------

## 🗑️ Delete Instance

To delete a deployed instance:

```bash
# Remote execution
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/delete.sh | bash -s -- <instance_id>

# Or download script and run
curl -fsSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linode/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/main/delete.sh
bash delete.sh <instance_id>
```

The script will show instance details and ask for confirmation before deletion.

-----------------------------------------

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8/
├── deploy.sh                    # Main deployment script
├── delete.sh                    # Instance deletion script
├── script/
│   └── quickstart_tools.sh      # Shared functions (API, OAuth, utilities)
└── template/
    ├── cloud-init.yaml          # Cloud-init configuration
    ├── docker-compose.yml       # Docker Compose configuration
    ├── Caddyfile                # Caddy reverse proxy configuration
    └── install.sh               # Post-boot installation script
```

-----------------------------------------
## 🔒 Security

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: By default, ports 80 and 443 are exposed to the internet

### Immediate Security Steps

1. **Configure Cloud Firewall** (Recommended)
   - Create Linode Cloud Firewall
   - Restrict access to ports 80/443 by source IP
   - Allow SSH (port 22) from trusted IPs only

2. **SSH Security**
   - SSH key authentication required
   - Root password provided for emergency console access only

-----------------------------------------
## 🛠️ Useful Commands

```bash
# SSH into your instance
ssh -i /path/to/your/key root@<instance-ip>

# Check container status
docker ps -a

# Check Docker containers log
cd /opt/ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8 && docker compose logs -f

# Check systemd service status
systemctl status ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service

# View systemd service logs
journalctl -u ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service -n 100

# Check cloud-init logs
tail -f /var/log/cloud-init-output.log -n 100

# Restart all services
systemctl restart ai-quickstart-qwen3-14b-fp8.service

# Check NVIDIA GPU status
nvidia-smi

# Check vLLM loaded models
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/models

# Check Open-WebUI health
curl http://localhost:8080/health

# Check vLLM container logs
docker logs vllm
```
-----------------------------------------

## 🤝 Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome! For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0.
